Who knows the Eight Precepts? Please stand up and read them
to Ms. Van. I know them,
but maybe she'll pass away soon.
Ms. Nguyen Thi Van, Dharma name Dieu
Nhan, born in
1942 in Dai Yen, Ha Long City,
Quang Ninh Province, with a heart full of love and reverence for the Buddha,
has been practicing and serving at Ba Vang Pagoda
since the early years when her master first
came to the pagoda. For over 10 years now, she has been
an official Buddhist in the Truc
Tue Quang Trung Quang Ninh Dharma
group, belonging to the Cuc Vang club practicing the Six Harmonies. She
has made the Bodhi vow and practices
Bodhi virtues daily. She cultivates
merit and accumulates blessings, hoping that upon her
death she will have abundant merit, a body free from
illness and suffering, the elimination of karmic obstacles, and be
reborn in a peaceful realm. In her next life, she will be
reborn as a man and return to Ba Vang Pagoda to become a
monk and study the 13 ascetic practices to seek
liberation, sainthood, and supreme enlightenment. On
November 7th,
2024, Ms. Van was ill and wished to
meet her master on November 8th,
2024, after completing her duties.  Regarding the master who
arranged time to visit the old man in his
final moments, did the old man
recognize the master? "Yes, that must be very tiring. Very
tiring. Is it hard to breathe? Yes, I'll mix some
honey and sugar. Give it to him, master. Let me give the old man some honey. I'll
give the old man some
honey to drink. Drink a little, so he'll feel
better. I'm so tired from fighting
this illness.
[Music] That's what
Buddha taught about impermanence, do you understand, old man?
This body is impermanent, isn't it?
It's healthy one moment, then suddenly it falls ill, and
then it dies.
You mustn't be afraid of death, you know. Death, death, I'm
not afraid of death. Yes, I'm not afraid of death. Who knows the Eight Precepts?
Stop and read it to the old man. I know it. Yes, I
still know the Eight Precepts. The Eight Precepts are the Buddha's teachings. Many
people return to the Buddha's teachings, bringing them up to the mind to
remember and think
about the Three Precepts. Master, concentrate your mind and listen to the sutra.
Concentrate your mind. Listen to the sutra. Listen to the
Buddha's sutra. Go and chant along with the Buddha's sutra. The
world is impermanent, and only the
master is here."  Listen to the scriptures, okay?
Listen to the Buddhist scriptures. The scriptures taught by Venerable
Vân have been at the temple for over ten years,
so the master thinks he
has cultivated good karma. Even if he leaves this body, he will
be reborn in a
good place. He can still hold this master's hand, he can
still hold it tightly, that's good.
If his lifespan ends, may he
depart peacefully. May Venerable Vân depart and be
reborn in the best and most auspicious realm, be
reborn as a human being in a cultured place, and encounter the
Buddha's teachings. Oh my child, this old man's eyes... maybe he's
going... Maybe he's going... V Dung
Dung is going, he's going, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone,
he's gone so gently, right? Yes, yes, I
dedicate the merit to you. Let go of
this physical body, be reborn in a good realm, okay? He's
gone, his hand is
broken, he's gone
[music],
he's gone, he's gone
[music], he's gone, he's gone, the
Last Breath... oh
[music],
then it's very, very beautiful, very peaceful. The
master gave him a little something to eat,
right? He kept yearning and longing to meet the master. It's truly
wonderful, I think
he's very fortunate.
That auspicious moment was very gentle, very peaceful. The master passed away
very peacefully, my children. It's
good that he also passed away so peacefully. Keep practicing, this master has cultivated so much.
Wait for the family to arrive. Exactly at 4
o'clock, he passed away. Exactly at 4 o'clock, it was very beautiful, like he was
sleeping. See? Very peaceful. He truly
passed away in the master's arms. His
old hand was tightly clasped, this hand is tightly clasped,
master's hand, one hand clasped,
right? My hand is separate from the
master's hand, he's clasped it tightly like this.
Truly, a disciple of the master. No need to
close his eyes, my child.
Before he passed away, he got to hear
Buddhist scriptures again. Is that enough auspiciousness? Today
the master is home, but Mai has gone to school. He
flew to school early this morning. That's enough
auspiciousness. My children must practice with
all their hearts. You must be single-minded and wholeheartedly rely on him to have
enough blessings and good fortune. Without
single-minded reliance,
you will never have enough auspiciousness. He was single-minded and wholeheartedly reliance.
When he met the master, he was
wholeheartedly following the temple. So,
naturally, he had enough auspiciousness; no
one could have predicted it, no one knew.
If you leave tomorrow, it's perfect timing that the master won't be home. He
came here around 2:30, almost 3:00,
but at 4:00 he left. The
sound was very gentle, very beautiful.
But today
is the day of Dieu Nhan, Nguyen Thi Van, Dharma name Dieu Nhan. I am
fortunate to have the community and the
master come to bless me in my
final moments. I will depart very peacefully.
The master even fed me a little
water and my last meal. And I even
got to hear Buddhist scriptures. And I
departed in the embrace
of the master. I held the master's hand tightly like
this. That's good!
Then I will surely be reborn into a
peaceful realm. All the merits I have accumulated and the work I have
done at the temple, the master will
dedicate them all to me. And then the
community will also dedicate their merits to me. So that in my next life I will be
reborn
into a good and noble place, born
into a family of devout Buddhists who understand the
Dharma, so that I can go to the temple
early. I will develop Bodhi mind early and become a
nun early. That's it!  My dear friend,
today is wonderful. My fellow
practitioners are here in such
large numbers, right when I arrived. Yes, it was very
peaceful, very
peaceful, very peaceful. Some people who passed away did
n't even need their eyes closed; they just
slept peacefully.
[Music]
Throughout all these years at the temple, Mrs.
Nguyen Thi Van has always diligently practiced and
participated fully in all the temple's sessions and the
club's training programs, fulfilling her duties with
great diligence according to
her age and health. Even for small tasks,
she is always dedicated to her duties.
Despite her old age, she is
particularly punctual, always arriving on time
for work. She never misses a day, and even when
tired, she never shows
any signs of fatigue. At each morning meeting
of the committee, if there is a mistake, she repents. And when she
sees any problems with the members of the committee,
she always advises them that
whatever they do, they must be virtuous and morally upright,
as the Venerable Master taught. She
always goes to the temple.  Before, she
always told us that she was a role model, a
role model for us to look up to.
She was the oldest in the monastery, always
diligent in her practice. She also told
me that now that she was old, she
had to live in a certain way, setting an example for
newcomers to follow, so that
they could learn from her and live
in a disciplined manner, benefiting the most from
coming to the monastery. She had to be a person
of the family, trusting the master so he could go on his work with peace of mind.
Her diligence was like that. She had been
sick for two days and had to ask Buddhist followers to beg for food for her.
On the morning she passed away,
she still followed her daily practice schedule in the main
hall as usual. Therefore, in her
final moments, she wholeheartedly relied on the
Three Jewels, relied on the master and the Sangha, wholeheartedly
practicing the Bodhicitta (awakening of the Bodhi mind).
Because of this, she was blessed with abundant merit and passed away peacefully and
serenely, like a peaceful sleep.
She will surely be reborn in a
good realm, continuing to follow the noble path of
practicing the Buddha's righteous Dharma until the day of
liberation. Those who awaken the Bodhicitta will always...  We must always
encounter Buddhas, Bodhisattvas, and other enlightened beings to
continue cultivating Bodhicitta. Therefore, we
must cultivate Bodhicitta without interruption, always in
continuity. Because when we cultivate
Bodhicitta, in every lifetime we will meet
virtuous and knowledgeable beings who help us
continue cultivating Bodhicitta. Single-mindedly
seeking Supreme Enlightenment is the first starting point
for those who cultivate Bodhicitta, and it
will also be continuous. Therefore, we
must, in every lifetime,
always single-mindedly seek Supreme Enlightenment.
We must have such a mind,
dear fellow practitioners.
We should never have the mind that says, "In this lifetime, I will
cultivate Bodhicitta," meaning in
every lifetime. Because we have such a thought, we must single-mindedly seek Bodhicitta. Then, in the next stages of our lives, we will practice Bodhicitta virtues, leading a
good life, a life that
brings happiness to many, a
life oriented towards goodness. Those who have cultivated Bodhicitta will
no longer do evil deeds. This is
very beneficial.  With happiness in mind,
Han Quan also rejoices in all
esteemed fellow practitioners who
aspire to the Bodhisattva Awakening.
Whoever aspires to the Bodhisattva Awakening,
Han Quan also rejoices and
prays that we may soon attain
true Bodhisattva Awakening. May
we remain in the Bodhisattva Awakening, and may all Buddhas, Bodhisattvas, and holy
monks protect and guide
us so that we do not stray from the Bodhisattva Awakening, do not lose
the Bodhisattva Awakening,
and diligently strive for the
supreme path, benefiting ourselves, bringing happiness to ourselves, and then benefiting others. Who am I? Who am I? Who
am I? From birth, I have
always searched for myself.
Life has been full of trials and tribulations, and what do I need? What do I gain? Who am I? Who am I? Childhood is a journey, am I the
age of
sainthood? Spring, old age, or
death? Where is the true me? The truth lies in the
Buddha's teachings,
time is peaceful, people are free from obstacles, and the nature of impermanence is
inherent. H is the truth, the essence of love and suffering. What is the
truth? What is the corner of greed and attachment?
Where can I find myself?
Only I, the
Bodhisattva, the true master, am
I. I keep searching for
myself in ignorance and suffering.
Only I, the
true Bodhisattva, am I. Who am I? Am I
Childhood? Why
has childhood passed? Middle age or old age, am I still me? Why
not? Everything will pass away.
In death, am
I there or not? After death, karmic consciousness
continues to deny. In the cycle of suffering,
only the enlightened mind and boundless compassion
desire the world without opposition. That is the true
Bodhisattva. Only the Bodhisattva, the true Bodhisattva, is I. I keep
searching for
myself in ignorance and suffering.
Only I, the true Bodhisattva,
am I.
[Music]
Awakening Bodhisattva. Awakening
Bodhisattva.
[Music]
...